---
layout: post
title: "RPC"
---
### Before RPC
* sockets are the fundamental mechanism with a poor read/write only interface

### Typing
* MPI has explicit type declaration
    * deal recursively with passing the pointer
* Assuming name equivalence (structural equivalence in compiler)

### Centralized Registry
* Services are registered here, binding
* Hard coded address is also an alternative

### Failover
* If the server fails and reboot, the client will retransimit the request with same unique identifier and different sequence number
* The server would ACK every request
    * latency is better than TCP, throughput is worse then TCP
        * very slow in bulk data transferring

### Reviews
* Stubs are customized for every different client and server
* No time-out criticism
    * If time-out is not supported, people could underestimate the consumption time of RPCs inside one loop. E.g., considering a local procedure call which has time-out of 1s, whose body is just a 1000 times loop of `a = a + 1`. This would be fine and never time-out. However, if we make the add operation into RPC call, even though it is easy and quick to return, the network latency would easy to accumulate more than 1s, at this time the programmer should be aware that he is calling over the network. By using time-out, he could find out the caller function's time-out more quickly.
    * The RPC design should not count on a specific language, such as *Mesa* to handle the time-out bases on its own language feature.
    * RPC could not be treated as local procedure call. Since we don't the load of a remote server, one quick RPC call could be super slow when large number of clients try to call it or the network itself becomes congested. In local procedure call, the procedure itself could figure how many processes are calling one particular service at the time. So no time-out simplification may cover up the potential congestion, especially when each client is not aware the existence of the others.
    * Time-out is not difficult to implement. In modern language, we only need set up a timer at the start of a function, then check the result when times up. If the return value hasn't arrived, then we raise time-out exception

### Reference
* [Recap of Paul Krzyzanowski@Rutgers] (https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/~pxk/417/notes/08-rpc.html)
* [Microsoft How RPC Works] (http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc738291(v=ws.10).aspx)
